# Acceleration-of-training-of-collaborative_filtering-on-FPGAs
My thesis is about the Acceleration of training of collaborative filtering algorithms, using the programming model HLS for FPGAs for Electrical and Computer Engineering at the National Technical University of Athens.

The rapid increase of development that has taken place in the field of Machine Learning last decade, has led to a big increment in the number of streaming services and platforms that are being used by a very big majority of people. Nowadays, recommendation algorithms are at the core of such platforms as they provide their customers with personalized suggestions in order to minimize the amount of time spent to find anything that suits them. Systems that use those kinds of algorithms are referred to as recommendation systems and have a wide appeal and usage in most applications in the market. By making use of algorithms designed for recommending items, recommendation systems utilize the previous choices of a user as well as his profile to find out the best item that matches his preferences, offering a better experience to its members. With the advent of big data, typical processor units have to operate on large chunks of data, resulting in lower performance of systems. Such approaches are time and energy-wasteful as recommendation algorithms need to operate the same computational function on huge amounts of data, requiring systems to offer high parallelization. An alternate solution, that may meet those needs is the implementation of such algorithms with high demands in reconfigurable architectures that have emerged last decade. FPGAs are a remarkable choice in order to achieve high performance with low energy consumption.

This thesis focuses on the research of recommendation systems that use collaborative filtering method, in order to design and accelerate the critical paths by implementing them for FPGAs, using HLS tools.
